Initial PR for Twingate integration (#1568)
DataDog/integrations-extras: twingate/README.md

# Twingate

## Overview

> [Twingate][1] is a zero trust network access platform that allows fast growing companies to quickly and easily provide secure access to their AWS environment. Incorporating modern technologies like NAT traversal, QUIC, private proxies, and split tunneling, Twingate can replace a traditional or cloud VPN while improving user performance and overall security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[Twingate][1] is a zero trust network access platform that allows fast growing companies to quickly and easily provide secure access to their AWS environment. By incorporating modern technologies such as NAT traversal, QUIC, private proxies, and split tunneling, Twingate can replace a traditional or cloud VPN while improving user performance and overall security.
```

> This integration allows organizations to monitor a user's resource access activities in real-time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration allows organizations to monitor a user's resource access activities in real time.
```

## Setup

> ### Pre-requisite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

> 1. You must have the Datadog Agent installed on the Twingate Connector server. You also must be able to connect to that host and be able to edit the files so as to configure the Agent and YAML Integration Configs. Refer to [these instructions](https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/agent/) to install the Datadog Agent.
> 2. You must deploy the Twingate Connector. Refer to [these instructions][3] to enable Real-time Connection Logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You have the Datadog Agent installed on the Twingate Connector server. You must be able to connect to that host and edit the files to configure the Agent and YAML Integration Configs. To install the Datadog Agent, see [Getting Started with the Agent][11].
2. You must deploy the Twingate Connector. To enable real-time connection logs, see the [Twingate documentation][3].
```

### Configure the Datadog Agent
#### Systemd

> 1. Set up [Datadog journald integration][5]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set up [Datadog journald integration][5].
```

> 2. Replace `journald.d/conf.yaml` with the configuration below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Replace `journald.d/conf.yaml` with the following configuration:
```

    ````
    logs:
      - type: journald
        container_mode: true
        include_units:
          - twingate-connector.service
        service: Twingate Connection
        source: Twingate Connection
        log_processing_rules:
        - type: include_at_match
          name: analytics
          pattern: ANALYTICS
        - type: mask_sequences
          name: remove_analytics
          replace_placeholder: ""
          pattern: "ANALYTICS "

>     ````

Reviewer: Use three backticks (```) instead of four and shift this code snippet one space to the left for proper alignment!

> 3. Add the `dd-agent` user to the `systemd-journal` group using the command `usermod -a -G systemd-journal dd-agent`
> 4. Restart the agent `service datadog-agent restart`
> 5. Confirm the Twingate Analytic log can be found in the [Datadog Logs][10]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the `dd-agent` user to the `systemd-journal` group by using `usermod -a -G systemd-journal dd-agent`.
4. Restart the Datadog Agent by running `service datadog-agent restart`.
5. Confirm that the Twingate Analytic log appears in the [Log Explorer][10].
```

## Troubleshooting

> Need help? Contact [Twingate Support][2]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Need help? Contact [Twingate Support][2].
```

[1]: https://www.twingate.com/
[2]: https://help.twingate.com/hc/en-us
[3]: https://docs.twingate.com/docs/connector-real-time-logs
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
[5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/logs/?tab=journald
[6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/explorer/facets/#manage-facets
[7]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/log_configuration/pipelines/?tab=source#create-a-pipeline
[8]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Twingate-Labs/datadog-integrations-extras/master/twingate/images/dashboard.png
[9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/explorer/facets/#measures

> [10]: https://app.datadoghq.com/logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[10]: https://app.datadoghq.com/logs
[11]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/agent/
```

# Twingate

## Overview
[Twingate][1] is a zero trust network access platform that allows fast growing companies to quickly and easily provide secure access to their AWS environment. Incorporating modern technologies like NAT traversal, QUIC, private proxies, and split tunneling, Twingate can replace a traditional or cloud VPN while improving user performance and overall security.

This integration allows organizations to monitor a user's resource access activities in real-time.

> ![Dashboard Preview][8]

Author: this is now removed in the latest commit.

2. You must deploy the Twingate Connector. Refer to [these instructions][3] to enable Real-time Connection Logs.

### Configure the Datadog Agent
#### Systemd
1. Set up [Datadog journald integration][5]
2. Replace `journald.d/conf.yaml` with the configuration below:
    ````
    logs:
      - type: journald
        container_mode: true
        include_units:
          - twingate-connector.service
        log_processing_rules:
        - type: include_at_match
          name: analytics
          pattern: ANALYTICS
            - type: mask_sequences
          name: remove_analytics
          replace_placeholder: ""
          pattern: "ANALYTICS "
    ````
3. Add the `dd-agent` user to the `systemd-journal` group using the command `usermod -a -G systemd-journal dd-agent`
4. Restart agent `service datadog-agent restart`
5. Confirm the Twingate Analytic log can be found in the [Datadog Logs](https://app.datadoghq.com/logs)

> ### Configure Datadog Logs
> 1. Create a new Datadog [Pipeline][7] with
>    * Filter `Service:twingate-connector`
>    * Name `Twingate Analytics`
> 2. Create new Grok Parser Processor within the Pipeline with
>     * Name `Remove Client IP Port`
>     * Rule `rule %{ipv4:connection.client_ip}%{regex(".*")}`
> 3. Create new GeoIP Parser Processor within the Pipeline with
>     * Name `GeoIP Parser`
>     * Geo IP `connection.client_ip`
>     *  Target Path `connection.client_geo`
> 4. [Create Datadog facets][6] for the following fields
>    * Client IP `@connection.client_ip` 
>    * Connector ID `@connector.id`
>    * Connector `@connector.name`
>    * Resource ID `@resource.id`
>    * Resource `@resource.address`
>    * Applied Rule `@resource.applied_rule`
>    * User ID `@user.id`
>    * User `@user.email`
>    * Connection ID `@connection.id`
>    * Bytes Received `@connection.rx`
>    * Bytes Sent `@connection.tx`
>    * Protocol `@connection.protocol`
>    * Port `@connection.resource_port`
>    * Remote Network ID `@remote_network.id`
>    * Remote Network `@remote_netowrk_name`
>    * Device ID `@device.id`
>    * Error `@connection.error_message`
>    * Location `@connection.client_geo.country.iso_code`
> 

Reviewer 2: This can be removed since logs will be packaged automatically with the integration via our logs team

```suggestion
### Configure Datadog Logs
1. Create a new Datadog [Pipeline][7] with
   * Filter `Service:twingate-connector`
   * Name `Twingate Analytics`
2. Create new Grok Parser Processor within the Pipeline with
    * Name `Remove Client IP Port`
    * Rule `rule %{ipv4:connection.client_ip}%{regex(".*")}`
3. Create new GeoIP Parser Processor within the Pipeline with
    * Name `GeoIP Parser`
    * Geo IP `connection.client_ip`
    *  Target Path `connection.client_geo`
4. [Create Datadog facets][6] for the following fields
   * Client IP `@connection.client_ip` 
   * Connector ID `@connector.id`
   * Connector `@connector.name`
   * Resource ID `@resource.id`
   * Resource `@resource.address`
   * Applied Rule `@resource.applied_rule`
   * User ID `@user.id`
   * User `@user.email`
   * Connection ID `@connection.id`
   * Bytes Received `@connection.rx`
   * Bytes Sent `@connection.tx`
   * Protocol `@connection.protocol`
   * Port `@connection.resource_port`
   * Remote Network ID `@remote_network.id`
   * Remote Network `@remote_netowrk_name`
   * Device ID `@device.id`
   * Error `@connection.error_message`
   * Location `@connection.client_geo.country.iso_code`

```

Author: @emarsha94 Thank you very much for the feedback. However, if possible, we would like to keep these steps in readme until the YAML file is shared with us.

2. You must deploy the Twingate Connector. Refer to [these instructions][3] to enable Real-time Connection Logs.

### Configure the Datadog Agent
#### Systemd
1. Set up [Datadog journald integration][5]
2. Replace `journald.d/conf.yaml` with the configuration below:
    ````
    logs:
      - type: journald
        container_mode: true
        include_units:
          - twingate-connector.service
        service: Twingate Connection
        source: Twingate Connection
        log_processing_rules:
        - type: include_at_match
          name: analytics
          pattern: ANALYTICS
        - type: mask_sequences
          name: remove_analytics
          replace_placeholder: ""
          pattern: "ANALYTICS "
    ````
3. Add the `dd-agent` user to the `systemd-journal` group using the command `usermod -a -G systemd-journal dd-agent`
4. Restart agent `service datadog-agent restart`

> 5. Confirm the Twingate Analytic log can be found in the [Datadog Logs](https://app.datadoghq.com/logs)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Confirm the Twingate Analytic log can be found in the [Datadog Logs][10]
```

   * Applied Rule `@resource.applied_rule`
   * User Email `@usr.email`
   * Connection ID `@connection.id`
   * Protocol `@connection.protocol`
   * Port `@connection.resource_port`
   * Remote Network ID `@remote_network.id`
   * Remote Network `@remote_netowrk_name`
   * Device ID `@device.id`
   * Error `@error.message`
   * Location `@connection.client_geo.country.iso_code`
6. [Create Datadog measures][9] for the following fields with `Group=Twingate Connection`, `Type=Integer` and `Unit=Byte`
   * Bytes Received `@network.bytes_written`
   * Bytes Sent `@network.bytes_read`

## Troubleshooting
Need help? Contact [Twingate Support][2]

[1]: https://www.twingate.com/
[2]: https://help.twingate.com/hc/en-us
[3]: https://docs.twingate.com/docs/connector-real-time-logs
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
[5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/logs/?tab=journald
[6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/explorer/facets/#manage-facets
[7]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/log_configuration/pipelines/?tab=source#create-a-pipeline
[8]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Twingate-Labs/datadog-integrations-extras/master/twingate/images/dashboard.png

> [9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/explorer/facets/#measures

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/explorer/facets/#measures
[10]: https://app.datadoghq.com/logs
```

# Twingate

## Overview
[Twingate][1] is a zero trust network access platform that allows fast growing companies to quickly and easily provide secure access to their AWS environment. Incorporating modern technologies like NAT traversal, QUIC, private proxies, and split tunneling, Twingate can replace a traditional or cloud VPN while improving user performance and overall security.

> This integration allows organisation to monitor users' resource access activities in real-time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This integration allows organizations to monitor a users resource access activities in real-time.
```

> This integration allows organizations to monitor a users resource access activities in real-time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This integration allows organizations to monitor a user's resource access activities in real-time.
```

## Setup

> ### Pre-requisite
> 1. Twingate Account
> 2. Twingate Connector deployed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Pre-requisite
1. You must have the Datadog Agent installed on the Twingate Connector server. You also must be able to connect to that host and be able to edit the files so as to configure the Agent and YAML Integration Configs. Refer to [these instructions](https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/agent/) to install the Datadog Agent.
2. You must deploy the Twingate Connector. Refer to [these instructions] to enable Real-time Connection Logs.[3]
```

> ### Enable Twingate Connector Analytic Logs
> Follow the steps to enable [Real-time Connection Logs][3]
> 
> ### Install Datadog Agent
> Follow the steps to install [Datadog Agent][4] on the Twingate Connector server
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ### Configure Datadog Agent

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Configure the Datadog Agent:
```

#### Systemd
1. Set up [Datadog journald integration][5]
2. Replace `journald.d/conf.yaml` with the configuration below:
    ````
    logs:
      - type: journald
        container_mode: true
        include_units:
          - twingate-connector.service
        log_processing_rules:
        - type: include_at_match
          name: analytics
          pattern: ANALYTICS
            - type: mask_sequences
          name: remove_analytics
          replace_placeholder: ""
          pattern: "ANALYTICS "
    ````

> 3. Add the `dd-agent` user to the `systemd-journal` group `usermod -a -G systemd-journal dd-agent`

Reviewer 2: If this is the command to run: `usermod -a -G systemd-journal dd-agent` 

It would be good to specify. Ex:  Add the `dd-agent` user to the `systemd-journal` group using the command `usermod -a -G systemd-journal dd-agent`

4. Restart agent `service datadog-agent restart`

> 5. Confirm the Twingate Analytic log can be found in the Datadog UI

Reviewer 2: Could be helpful to provide a link to the logs UI

### Configure Datadog Logs

> 1. Create new Datadog [Pipeline][7] with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Create a new Datadog [Pipeline][7] with
```

   * Filter `Service:twingate-connector`
   * Name `Twingate Analytics`
2. Create new Grok Parser Processor within the Pipeline with
    * Name `Remove Client IP Port`
    * Rule `rule %{ipv4:connection.client_ip}%{regex(".*")}`
3. Create new GeoIP Parser Processor within the Pipeline with
    * Name `GeoIP Parser`
    * Geo IP `connection.client_ip`
    *  Target Path `connection.client_geo`
4. [Create Datadog facets][6] for the following fields
   * Client IP `@connection.client_ip` 
   * Connector ID `@connector.id`
   * Connector `@connector.name`
   * Resource ID `@resource.id`
   * Resource `@resource.address`
   * Applied Rule `@resource.applied_rule`
   * User ID `@user.id`
   * User `@user.email`
   * Connection ID `@connection.id`
   * Bytes Received `@connection.rx`
   * Bytes Sent `@connection.tx`
   * Protocol `@connection.protocol`
   * Port `@connection.resource_port`
   * Remote Network ID `@remote_network.id`
   * Remote Network `@remote_netowrk_name`
   * Device ID `@device.id`
   * Error `@connection.error_message`
   * Location `@connection.client_geo.country.iso_code`

> ## Data Collected
> ### Metrics
> Twingate does not include any metrics.
> 
> ### Service Checks
> Twingate does not include any service checks.
> 
> ### Events
> Twingate does not include any events.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
This can be removed
